there may be no uglier word in the
English language than pedophile it
conjures up thoughts we never want to
have of monsters preying on innocent
children as reviled as they are though
pedophiles lurk in greater numbers than
most of us know and ignoring they exist
won't cut it anymore in America I've
just visited one of the most confronting
places I've ever been a trailer park
that's entirely inhabited by pedophiles
and other sex offenders who've served
their prison sentences and have nowhere
else to live
this Village of the Damned is set up for
our protection and theirs
but it's also testing a new
controversial theory and the results
might surprise you
[Music]
st. Petersburg on Florida's west coast
is a postcard perfect playground except
for one thing not far from these beaches
hiding in plain sight is a trailer park
full of registered sex offenders
the 120 residents here are convicted
rapists child sex abusers and addicts of
child pornography so every one of the
people here are the neighbors that no
one else really wants to have absolutely
they're not in my backyard people the
village of a damned I refer to us as the
societal lepers of the 21st century
showing me around this godforsaken
underworld is build fury a convicted
child molester he's lived here for a
decade and is surprisingly open about
what makes someone like him commit the
most deplorable acts against children I
did what I did
III know why I did it I know how I did
it I know how I went about it it was a
setup predatorial action I was a
predator I did that
but as sickening as this place is it
could hold the key to answering one of
the biggest questions of our time
how do we stop pedophiles from offending
in the first place
we'll come out here with me teddy bear
pervert Park houses one of the largest
concentrations of sex offenders in the
United States I'm not innocent of having
the images you did view it and I did
view it yeah
it was set up ten years ago as a
solution to Florida's strict probation
laws which forbid convicted paedophiles
from living within 300 meters of kids
over the years it's become a safe haven
for society's most hated human beings
[Music]
there's not really any way to sugarcoat
this place it's frankly not a great spot
to live the conditions here are very
cramped everyone has a dark sinister
history and the atmosphere is well it's
unpleasant that said Florida Police say
it works now you'd think having such a
concentration of sex offenders in one
place would be a recipe for disaster
but law officers claim for them it
centralizes the potential problems it
also helps them to track down offenders
after they leave prison and for the
residents here it creates a kind of
self-regulation
[Music]
sex offenders no sex offenders better
than anybody because we are each other
so you call each other out absolutely
what's that like being labeled a sex
predator um I don't know it's kind of
surreal you know there's just it's just
you never thought of yourself as one of
those um I don't know no I don't think
so I mean it but if you think about it
what is the predator to do it it cuts
the weak and the young out of the pack
and it in a praise okay that's what I
did so it fits I I think it does I
absolutely think it does you'd be
hard-pressed finding a more candid or
repentant child molester than bill fury
what I did was wrong but you liked it so
you've owned that oh absolutely I
inflicted harm on other human beings
that I have no right to inflict can you
describe to me what did you do well I
have this girlfriend with a 12 year old
daughter and I was at her house one
night while she was working bottom line
is I offended sexually against women
somebody defenseless somebody owned
somebody that didn't deserve it and she
was 12 or 13 12 or 13 obviously too
young to be exposed to what I exposed
her to
bill spent almost 20 years behind bars
and underwent intense therapy but he
tells me he doesn't think he's been
cured the 56 year old says the forbidden
desires he acted on all those years ago
are still present
I don't think it'll ever go away you
know you just learn how to manage it how
to control it how to not feed it so that
feeling is still there with you to
desire absolutely absolutely
[Music]
research varies but even on the lowest
estimates there are millions of
pedophiles worldwide they walk among us
every day same County pedophiles do you
think you've seen over the years Wow
I'd be surprised if I haven't broken a
thousand dr. James Kanter is a
neuroscientist specializing in a typical
sexualities when it comes to pedophilia
he's reached important but uncomfortable
conclusions including why pedophiles are
attracted to children in the first place
[Music]
all the evidence suggests that
pedophilia begins in the womb a person
does not pick it and despite every kind
of treatment that has been attempted
over a century nothing has been shown to
be able to change these people from
pedophiles into non pedophiles by
exploring the brains of convicted
paedophiles using MRI scans dr. Kanter
discovered a dramatic cross wiring in
the connective tissue his controversial
research found that pedophiles are
victims of nature it's not that these
areas of the brain are different in the
pedophiles it's that the network that
they're supposed to form isn't connected
properly so it's accidentally
identifying things in the environment
that should evoke a parental nurturing
instinct but instead it's provoking a
sexual and erotic instinct from all the
sides from all your sides did it answer
the question are pedophiles born or made
interestingly the the science in general
says that pedophiles appear to be born
not made
because that's a big call isn't it is a
big call because some people will see
that as almost making an excuse for
pedophilia Oh
many people will make many different
interpretations but the place to start
any kind of policy is this is biological
and it's not going to change
dr. Kanter argues that means rather than
condemn people born with something they
can't control we need to start helping
them before they offend
and incredibly he says many pedophiles
actually don't want to act on their
urges pedophilia is not a synonym for
child molestation which is how most
people think pedophilia is the genuine
underlying unchanging sexual interest in
children but it's not the same thing
no child molestation is the actual
behavior that harms a child then you're
splitting stores they're a little bit
aren't you no I'm saying that the
definition of pedophilia is the
attraction but it doesn't mean they
they're going to do it exactly a
pedophile
there exists a group for example called
the virtuous pedophiles these people
recognize that they're sexually
interested in children have never
touched one and they essentially swear
themselves to a life of celibacy how is
it possible for them to suppress that
sexual urge for their entire lifetime I
can't imagine that kind of a curse and
we as a society the only thing we can do
the thing that would most protect our
children is to help them do that coming
up I'll go to sexual attractions chill
but this man says he's not a danger wolf
we do know the difference between
washing roll so can he be trusted have
you ever been tempted I've been sent to
just that's next on 60 minutes stories
of child sexual abuse dominate nightly
news volunteers two brothers aged 8 and
11 inside one of the public toilets
pedophiles it seems are all around us
alleged ringleaders of a child stealing
on a leak 90% of sex offenders live
undetected in the community but research
has now discovered not all of them are
molesting children and remarkably there
is such a thing as a good pedophile
this whole notion of a non offending
pedophile alt seems frankly a bit hard
to believe but we're about to meet a man
here in Melbourne who calls himself
exactly that a virtuous pedophile now
for obvious reasons relating to his
personal safety he doesn't want to
disclose his identity so we've agreed to
meet him at a neutral location in a city
hotel so he can tell us all about his
tortured existence Kiera as he's known
online works in tech and spends his free
time watching soccer and cricket he
sounds like any other ordinary bloke but
that all changes the moment he sits down
I've got a sexual attraction to children
are you uncomfortable being labeled a
pedophile it's a it's a difficult word
but that is technically true what age
for a sexual partner would you find
attractive in a purely physical sense I
would say seven years old Kiera says he
first became aware of his disturbing
attraction to little boys when he was a
teenager when I was around about 15 I
was going through stall I was looking at
boys I was finding them sexually
attractive but as I was growing older I
wasn't attracted to boys my own age you
know post puberty I was more attracted
to the two younger ones when that
realization dawned upon you and then you
bring the word pedophile in there must
have been very confusing it was you
associate with monsters you know and
it's very very very hard then to realize
that hang on then I'm not a monster I've
got a more LZ I could never to bring
myself to do something like that but
then you think you've you've got this
dark secret inside you as well and you
think but Kira isn't aligned
online there's a hidden population of
people just like him thousands of
self-confessed pedophiles who meet and
chat often anonymously in forums you
know I went through that period of you
know of self-hatred you know trying to
change myself you know you Todd
Nickerson is one of these so-called
virtuous pedophiles based in a small
town in Tennessee's he outed himself
publicly in 2015 to shed light on this
secret underworld I feel you know a
great burden has been lifted off of me
because like you know now people take me
at face value they know what I'm about
and the term virtuous pedophiles sounds
like an oxymoron but men like Todd and
Kira claim even though they're attracted
to children
they've never acted on their sexual
urges are you all committed along those
lines I would say mostly my feeling can
be better I don't trust that all of them
are doing exactly what they say they are
all the time and I am a little bit
cynical when it comes to that I find it
hard to marry a post those two terms
non-offending and and pedophile that's
fair enough
look it's but you have to realize we are
thinking people as well have you ever
been tempted with a child I wouldn't do
that have you ever been tempted I've
been to introduce have you ever carried
it out ever carried that through no I
never have not once not once but that
behavior is on a Razors Edge is it not
it can be
[Music]
the difference between virtuous
pedophiles and the offenders living here
at pervert Park in Florida is these men
chose to prey on the innocent it's only
now after countless lives have been
destroyed the child molesters like Bill
fury are learning to control their
sickening designs I really did want to
do the work I really did want to learn
what was making me tick what was making
me be who I was and it wasn't an
accident it wasn't just an opportunity I
was a predator I did that it's the kind
of unflinching self-reflection that's
encouraged and on-site group therapy
sessions what is it that instigates a
person to act out in a sexual way inside
this room offenders talk about what they
did and how they can stop themselves
from doing it again so then the question
becomes well what do we do to not have
that boundary crossed again still it
would be naive to think that all
pedophiles can be helped
79 year-old bobby was convicted for the
possession of child pornography
but the grandfather remains unrepentant
I never seen anything like this before
being a norm and looking at this
computer you know I don't see there's
nothing wrong with looking but you know
for someone looks here I don't see
anything wrong about looking I do there
is for someone like you to just look
there has to be someone else who's doing
you know or being forced to do it
nothing nothing but so ever that's the
problem with people like you who just
looked they seen it I enjoyed it
so you deserve to be a registered sex
offender right I enjoyed it
you know I don't see anything wrong with
it even dr. James can't all who
advocates for non-offending pedophiles
admits there are certain types of sex
offenders who should never be released
from prison what sort of percentage of
pedophiles are psychopathic probably a
handful of a percent by other worst of
the worst
oh absolutely they are the people where
society needs to protect itself and the
only way to for society to protect
himself against a genuine dangerous
psychopath is to remove the person from
society but for the most part dr. canter
says we need to rethink the way we deal
with pedophilia because right now not
enough is being done to ensure
non-offending pedophiles stay that way
the only situation that would change
things is if we make it easier for them
to come in that would give us contact
with B files that we don't have contact
with now but if we're going to treat
them like criminals they will stay
underground and work just back to where
we started look as the expert I can hear
your confidence but as a parent mm-hmm I
think that's a huge leap of faith yes it
is but this is not the first time
Sciences run into this there are a lot
of things that we know that are
uncomfortable but that doesn't make them
wrong
so how do we help our children by
helping you what we do need to do is we
need to start getting the message out
that if you do have these feelings you
need to be reaching out and as a society
we need to be providing a safe place
it's not about normalizing pedophilia or
either it's about just understanding
that you are the way you are are you
convinced that you were made this way I
don't believe there's a way I can change
it if someone were to offer me a magic
pill saying take this pill you'll no
longer be a beautiful you'll be a trick
to adults everything be fine I'll take
the pill but there is no pill like that
so the best thing I can do is just
accept Who I am and you know make the
best of their situation
[Music]
supporting instead of ostracizing
pedophiles is a bold idea but even if it
works the thought of doing anything to
help the most despised human beings in
society doesn't sit well but if we
believe the science then right now there
are hundreds of teenagers around the
world coming to the realization that
they're attracted to children too and
helping them might be the only option we
have
I know before I got arrested there were
many many times when I wish there was
some help I knew there was something
wrong with me but you know if I go into
a doctor and I say hey look I'm thinking
about molesting little girls by law he
has to report me by law I got to get
locked up so the only way I can get any
help you out hurts somebody and I'm not
blaming the system for what I did don't
get me wrong but wouldn't it be awesome
if you could just go get some help
before you let it affect another human
being you think other non offending
pedophiles need to put their hand up
absolutely I mean just if nothing else
take my life as an example I'm 56 years
old for the rest of my life
no matter what I do no matter where I go
I'm gonna be that sexual predator I'm
gonna be the face of that monster you
don't want that hello I'm William
Bartlett thanks for watching so keep up
with the latest from 60 minutes
Australia make sure you subscribe to our
channel you can also download the 9 now
app for full episodes and other
exclusive 60 Minutes content